docs: update DKIM/DMARC/SPF docs (#3231)
docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver: docs/content/config/best-practices/dkim_dmarc_spf.md

The command `docker exec <CONTAINER NAME> setup dkim help` shows valuable information on our setup of OpenDKIM.

To enable DKIM signature, **you must have created at least one email account**. The script should ideally be run with a volume for _config_ attached (eg: `./docker-data/dms/config/:/tmp/docker-mailserver/`). Once you created an account, just run the following command to generate the signature:

```sh
docker exec -ti <CONTAINER NAME> config dkim
```

The default keysize when generating the signature is 4096 bits for now. If you need to change it (e.g. your DNS provider limits the size), then provide the size as the first parameter of the command:

```sh
./setup.sh config dkim keysize <keysize>
```

For LDAP systems that do not have any directly created user account you can run the following command (since `8.0.0`) to generate the signature by additionally providing the desired domain name (if you have multiple domains use the command multiple times or provide a comma-separated list of domains):

```sh
./setup.sh config dkim keysize <key-size> domain <example.com>[,<not-example.com>]
```

After generating DKIM (with OpenDKIM) keys, you should restart `docker-mailserver`.

> #### Using Verify-Only Mode
> 
> If you want to run OpenDKIM in verify-only mode, you need to adjust `/etc/opendkim.conf` manually (e.g. with [`user-patches.sh`][docs-userpatches]):
> 
> ```bash
> sed -i -E 's|^(Mode[ ]*).*|\1v|g' /etc/opendkim.conf
> echo 'ReportAddress           postmaster@example.com' >>/etc/opendkim.conf
> 
> ```
> 
> [docs-userpatches]: ../advanced/override-defaults/user-patches.md
> 

Reviewer: Assuming no longer relevant, especially with planned deprecation / removal of OpenDKIM support.

```suggestion
```

    ```cf
    # documentation: https://rspamd.com/doc/modules/dkim_signing.html

    enabled = true;

    sign_authenticated = true;
    sign_local = true;

    use_domain = "header";
    use_redis = false; # don't change unless Redis also provides the DKIM keys
    use_esld = true;
    check_pubkey = true;

    domain {
        example.com {
            selectors [
                {
                    path = "/path/to/com.example.rsa.private";
                    selector = "dkim-rsa";
                },
                {
                  path = /path/to/com.example.ed25519.private";
                  selector = "dkim-ed25519";
                }
          ]
        }
        example.org {
            selectors [
                {
                    path = "/path/to/org.example.rsa.private";
                    selector = "dkim-rsa";
                },
                {
                  path = "/path/to/org.example.ed25519.private";
                  selector = "dkim-ed25519";
                }
            ]
        }
    }
    ```

!!! bug "File Permissions"

>     Make sure the user `_rspamd` is able to go into the directory where you persist the (private) key files, and ensure it can read them!

Reviewer: For reference, the `open_dkim.bats` test would extract out the public key and concatentate it (_similar to what the DNS advice for web UI suggests further down_):

https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/blob/adb38207ad35101bb01ce21621baa1c342fa205d/test/tests/serial/open_dkim.bats#L231-L243

[Smallstep CLI](https://smallstep.com/docs/step-cli/reference/crypto/keypair) can generate the keypairs (including Ed25519), while [another command](https://smallstep.com/docs/step-cli/reference/crypto/key/) from their CLI can inspect the private key or derive the public key from it (in [PEM format](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57870914/how-to-create-a-single-line-x509-certificate-that-can-be-parsed-by-openssl-comma/58254058#58254058)). That would technically be capable of generating the main data for DKIM, the rest could be templated.

That said if OpenDKIM is going to be dropped by end of the year, `setup config dkim` could just replace opendkim for rspamd equivalent command :sweat_smile:

>     Make sure the user `_rspamd` is able to go into the directory where you persist the (private) key files, and ensure it can read them!

Reviewer: Found [this awful looking monstrosity one-liner](https://serverfault.com/questions/466683/can-an-ssl-certificate-be-on-a-single-line-in-a-file-no-line-breaks/1055660#1055660) that reads in a public key in PEM format, excludes the header/footer lines and concatenates the base64 encoded content to a single line:

```bash
awk 'NR>2 { sub(/\r/, ""); printf "%s\\n",last} { last=$0 }' example.pub `
```

Probably don't want the `\n` being added there, so removing that and optionally using `fold` to revert back to the same PEM width:

```bash
awk 'NR>2 { sub(/\r/, ""); printf "%s",last} { last=$0 }' example.pub
  | fold --width 64
```

---

DKIM key + dns record generator helper:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

SELECTOR=${1:-mail}
KEYSIZE=${2:-2048}

# Create your own keypair instead of via `opendkim-genkey` or `rspamadm dkim_keygen`:
#step crypto keypair "${SELECTOR}.pub" "${SELECTOR}.private" --kty RSA --size "${KEYSIZE}" --no-password --insecure

# Derive the public key from the private key as a single line
PUBLIC_KEY=$(
  step crypto key public "${SELECTOR}.private" \
    | awk 'NR>2 { sub(/\r/, ""); printf "%s",last} { last=$0 }'
)

# Format into multiline 255 char segments for DNS record zone file:
PUBLIC_KEY_SPLIT=$(
  fold --width 255 <<< "p=${PUBLIC_KEY}" \
    | sed -E 's#(.*)#        "\1"#'
)

# Template of rspamadm output:
cat << EOF > "${SELECTOR}.dns.txt"
${SELECTOR}._domainkey IN TXT ( "v=DKIM1; k=rsa; "
${PUBLIC_KEY_SPLIT}
) ;
EOF
```

There you go, does not depend on opendkim or rspamd to generate the keypair and record, and can output the single line entry or multi-part DNS zone record.

`setup config dkim` could be retrofitted with that to generate a key in config volume that is stored in a common folder that both opendkim and rspamd could copy from at runtime and generate their configs for.

    When you set `check_pubkey = true;` in `dkim_signing.conf`, Rspamd will check the public key against your private key and emit a warning if there is a mismatch. Monitor the log file (`/var/log/supervisor/rspamd.log`) closely!

[rspamd-docs-dkim-checks]: https://www.rspamd.com/doc/modules/dkim.html
[rspamd-docs-dkim-signing]: https://www.rspamd.com/doc/modules/dkim_signing.html

### Follow-Up DNS Setup

Configuring DNS for DKIM requires adding a TXT record. We assume you are using a web-interface - if not, and you have access to a DNS zone _file_, you can copy the contents of the public key file into the file.

In the DNS web-interface, create a new record with this field content:

- **Type:** `TXT`
- **Name:** is your DKIM selector (default `mail`) with `._domainkey` appended: `mail._domainkey`
- **Value:** should be the content within `( ... )`: `v=DKIM1; k=rsa; p=AZERTYUGHJKLMWX...`
- **TTL:** The default value should be fine.

!!! info "`<selector>.txt` public key content"

>     The public key value was generated as the value for a complete record that can be pasted as-is into a [DNS zone file][cloudflare-dns-zonefile].
>     
>     DNS `TXT` records with long values need to be split into parts every 255 characters. This is why the public key has multiple parts wrapped within double-quotes between `(` and `)`.
>     
>     A DNS web-interface may not accept a public key with this special formatting as input (_while [others may require it, but all on a single line][dns-webui-dkim]_). 
> 
>     When your file with public key (eg: `mail.txt`) looks like this:
> 
>     ```txt
>     dkim-rsa._domainkey IN TXT ( "v=DKIM1; k=rsa; "
>     "p=MIIBIjANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQEFAAOCAQ8AMIIBCgKCAQEAqQMMqhb1S52Rg7VFS3EC6JQIMxNDdiBmOKZvY5fiVtD3Z+yd9ZV+V8e4IARVoMXWcJWSR6xkloitzfrRtJRwOYvmrcgugOalkmM0V4Gy/2aXeamuiBuUc4esDQEI3egmtAsHcVY1XCoYfs+9VqoHEq3vdr3UQ8zP/l+FP5UfcaJFCK/ZllqcO2P1GjIDVSHLdPpRHbMP/tU1a9mNZ"
>     "5QMZBJ/JuJK/s+2bp8gpxKn8rh1akSQjlynlV9NI+7J3CC7CUf3bGvoXIrb37C/lpJehS39KNtcGdaRufKauSfqx/7SxA0zyZC+r13f7ASbMaQFzm+/RRusTqozY/p/MsWx8QIDAQAB"
>     ) ;
>     ```
> 
>     the value of your DNS record for DKIM should look like this:
> 
>     ```txt
>     v=DKIM1; k=rsa; p=MIIBIjANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQEFAAOCAQ8AMIIBCgKCAQEAqQMMqhb1S52Rg7VFS3EC6JQIMxNDdiBmOKZvY5fiVtD3Z+yd9ZV+V8e4IARVoMXWcJWSR6xkloitzfrRtJRwOYvmrcgugOalkmM0V4Gy/2aXeamuiBuUc4esDQEI3egmtAsHcVY1XCoYfs+9VqoHEq3vdr3UQ8zP/l+FP5UfcaJFCK/ZllqcO2P1GjIDVSHLdPpRHbMP/tU1a9mNZ5QMZBJ/JuJK/s+2bp8gpxKn8rh1akSQjlynlV9NI+7J3CC7CUf3bGvoXIrb37C/lpJehS39KNtcGdaRufKauSfqx/7SxA0zyZC+r13f7ASbMaQFzm+/RRusTqozY/p/MsWx8QIDAQAB
>     ```
> 
>     And `dig` should confirm that:
> 
>     ```console
>     $ dig +short TXT dkim-rsa._domainkey.example.com
>     "v=DKIM1; k=rsa; p=MIIBIjANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQEFAAOCAQ8AMIIBCgKCAQEAqQMMqhb1S52Rg7VFS3EC6JQIMxNDdiBmOKZvY5fiVtD3Z+yd9ZV+V8e4IARVoMXWcJWSR6xkloitzfrRtJRwOYvmrcgugOalkmM0V4Gy/2aXeamuiBuUc4esDQEI3egmtAsHcVY1XCoYfs+9VqoHEq3vdr3UQ8zP/l+FP5UfcaJFCK/ZllqcO2P1GjIDVSHLdPpRHbMP/tU1a9mNZ5QMZBJ/JuJK/s+2bp8gpxKn8rh1akSQjlynlV9NI+7J3CC7CUf3bGvoXIrb37C/lpJehS39" "KNtcGdaRufKauSfqx/7SxA0zyZC+r13f7ASbMaQFzm+/RRusTqozY/p/MsWx8QIDAQAB"
>     ```
> 
> [cloudflare-dns-zonefile]: https://www.cloudflare.com/en-gb/learning/dns/glossary/dns-zone
> [dns-webui-dkim]: https://serverfault.com/questions/763815/route-53-doesnt-allow-adding-dkim-keys-because-length-is-too-long

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This file was generated for use within a [DNS zone file][dns::wikipedia-zonefile]. DNS `TXT` records values that are longer than 255 characters need to be split into multiple parts. This is why the public key has multiple parts wrapped within double-quotes between `(` and `)`.
    
    A DNS web-interface may handle this internally instead, while [others may not, but expect the input as a single line][dns-webui-dkim]_). You'll need to manually format the value as described below.

    Your DNS record file (eg: `mail.txt`) should look similar to this:

    ```txt
    mail._domainkey IN TXT ( "v=DKIM1; k=rsa; "
    "p=MIIBIjANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQEFAAOCAQ8AMIIBCgKCAQEAqQMMqhb1S52Rg7VFS3EC6JQIMxNDdiBmOKZvY5fiVtD3Z+yd9ZV+V8e4IARVoMXWcJWSR6xkloitzfrRtJRwOYvmrcgugOalkmM0V4Gy/2aXeamuiBuUc4esDQEI3egmtAsHcVY1XCoYfs+9VqoHEq3vdr3UQ8zP/l+FP5UfcaJFCK/ZllqcO2P1GjIDVSHLdPpRHbMP/tU1a9mNZ"
    "5QMZBJ/JuJK/s+2bp8gpxKn8rh1akSQjlynlV9NI+7J3CC7CUf3bGvoXIrb37C/lpJehS39KNtcGdaRufKauSfqx/7SxA0zyZC+r13f7ASbMaQFzm+/RRusTqozY/p/MsWx8QIDAQAB"
    ) ;
    ```

    Take the content between `( ... )`, and combine all the quote wrapped content and remove the double-quotes including the white-space between them. That is your `TXT` record value, the above example would become this:

    ```txt
    v=DKIM1; k=rsa; p=MIIBIjANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQEFAAOCAQ8AMIIBCgKCAQEAqQMMqhb1S52Rg7VFS3EC6JQIMxNDdiBmOKZvY5fiVtD3Z+yd9ZV+V8e4IARVoMXWcJWSR6xkloitzfrRtJRwOYvmrcgugOalkmM0V4Gy/2aXeamuiBuUc4esDQEI3egmtAsHcVY1XCoYfs+9VqoHEq3vdr3UQ8zP/l+FP5UfcaJFCK/ZllqcO2P1GjIDVSHLdPpRHbMP/tU1a9mNZ5QMZBJ/JuJK/s+2bp8gpxKn8rh1akSQjlynlV9NI+7J3CC7CUf3bGvoXIrb37C/lpJehS39KNtcGdaRufKauSfqx/7SxA0zyZC+r13f7ASbMaQFzm+/RRusTqozY/p/MsWx8QIDAQAB
    ```

    To test that your new DKIM record is correct, query it with the `dig` command. The `TXT` value response should be a single line split into multiple parts wrapped in double-quotes:

    ```console
    $ dig +short TXT dkim-rsa._domainkey.example.com
    "v=DKIM1; k=rsa; p=MIIBIjANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQEFAAOCAQ8AMIIBCgKCAQEAqQMMqhb1S52Rg7VFS3EC6JQIMxNDdiBmOKZvY5fiVtD3Z+yd9ZV+V8e4IARVoMXWcJWSR6xkloitzfrRtJRwOYvmrcgugOalkmM0V4Gy/2aXeamuiBuUc4esDQEI3egmtAsHcVY1XCoYfs+9VqoHEq3vdr3UQ8zP/l+FP5UfcaJFCK/ZllqcO2P1GjIDVSHLdPpRHbMP/tU1a9mNZ5QMZBJ/JuJK/s+2bp8gpxKn8rh1akSQjlynlV9NI+7J3CC7CUf3bGvoXIrb37C/lpJehS39" "KNtcGdaRufKauSfqx/7SxA0zyZC+r13f7ASbMaQFzm+/RRusTqozY/p/MsWx8QIDAQAB"
    ```

[cloudflare-dns-zonefile]: https://www.cloudflare.com/en-gb/learning/dns/glossary/dns-zone
[dns-webui-dkim]: https://serverfault.com/questions/763815/route-53-doesnt-allow-adding-dkim-keys-because-length-is-too-long
```

    
    We encourage everyone to prefer Rspamd via `ENABLE_RSPAMD=1`.

!!! warning "DNS Caches & Propagation"

    While modern DNS providers are quick, it may take minutes or even hours for new DNS records to become available / propagate.

## DKIM

!!! quote "What is DKIM"

    DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM) is an email authentication method designed to detect forged sender addresses in email (email spoofing), a technique often used in phishing and email spam.

    [Source][wikipedia-dkim]

    [wikipedia-dkim]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DomainKeys_Identified_Mail

DKIM is twofold:

1. Inbound mail will verify any DKIM signatures found.
2. Outbound mail is signed when you've provided a DKIM key for the sending domain.

DKIM support is handled by either:

- OpenDKIM (_[enabled by default][docs-env-opendkim]_)
- Rspamd (_opt-in via [`ENABLE_RSPAMD=1`][docs-env-rspamd]_)

When DKIM is enabled, checks for inbound mail are enabled automatically. Additional setup is required for signing outbound mail. This is optional but encouraged.

> [docs-env-opendkim]: ../config/environment.md#enable_opendkim
> [docs-env-rspamd]: ../config/environment.md#enable_rspamd

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[docs-env-opendkim]: ../environment.md#enable_opendkim
[docs-env-rspamd]: ../environment.md#enable_rspamd
```

!!! warning "RSA Key Sizes >= 4096 Bit"

    Keys of 4096 bits could denied by some mail servers. According to [RFC 6376][rfc-6376] keys are [preferably between 512 and 2048 bits][github-issue-1854].

    [rfc-6376]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6376
    [github-issue-1854]: https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/issues/1854

### OpenDKIM

OpenDKIM is currently enabled by default, but can be disabled with `ENABLE_OPENDKIM=0`.

#### Generating Keys

The command `docker exec <CONTAINER NAME> setup config dkim help` details supported config options, along with some examples.

DKIM signing requires a private key, while verification requires your DNS to be configured with the associated public key.

This example **requires at least one email account** has been created. To store this data outside of the container have your [config volume][docs-volumes-config] attached (eg: `./docker-data/dms/config/:/tmp/docker-mailserver/`). Generate the DKIM keypair data with:

> [docs-volumes-config]: ../config/advanced/optional-config.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[docs-volumes-config]: ../advanced/optional-config.md
```

                }
          ]
        }
        example.org {
            selectors [
                {
                    path = "/path/to/org.example.rsa.private";
                    selector = "dkim-rsa";
                },
                {
                  path = "/path/to/org.example.ed25519.private";
                  selector = "dkim-ed25519";
                }
            ]
        }
    }
    ```

!!! bug "File Permissions & Signing Issues"

    Make sure the user `_rspamd` is able to go into the directory where you persist the (private) key files, and ensure it can read them! You can use `su -l _rspamd -s /bin/bash` to change to the `_rspamd` user and then navigate into the directory and read the files (e.g. with `cat`). If any errors occur, you know the permissions are not correct yet.

    When you set `check_pubkey = true;` in `dkim_signing.conf`, Rspamd will check the public key against your private key and emit a warning if there is a mismatch. Monitor the log file (`/var/log/supervisor/rspamd.log`) closely!

[rspamd-docs-dkim-checks]: https://www.rspamd.com/doc/modules/dkim.html
[rspamd-docs-dkim-signing]: https://www.rspamd.com/doc/modules/dkim_signing.html

> ### Follow-Up DNS Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### DNS Record { #dkim-dns }
```

> When you send a mail signed with your DKIM key, the receiver needs to check a DNS `TXT` record to verify the DKIM signature is legit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When mail signed with your DKIM key is sent from your mail server, the receiver needs to check a DNS `TXT` record to verify the DKIM signature is trustworthy.
```

> When you generated your key in the previous step, the DNS data was saved into a file `<selector>.txt` (default: `mail.txt`). Update your DNS with this content:
> 
> === "Web Interface"
> 
>     If your DNS can be [managed by a web-interface][dns::example-webui], create a new record:
> 
>     - **Type:** `TXT`
>     - **Name:** should be your DKIM selector `<selector>._domainkey` (_default: `mail._domainkey`_)
>     - **Value:** should use the content within `( ... )` (_see the info section below for advice on correct formatting_)
>     - **TTL (_Time To Live_):** Use the default (_otherwise [3600 seconds is appropriate][dns::digicert-ttl]_)
> 
> === "DNS Zone file"
> 
>     If your DNS is configured via files instead of a UI, `<selector>.txt` is already formatted as a [DNS Zone file][dns::wikipedia-zonefile] snippet that **you can copy/paste into your existing DNS zone**. The `TXT` value has been split into separate strings every 255 characters for compatibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! "Configuring DNS - DKIM record"

    When you generated your key in the previous step, the DNS data was saved into a file `<selector>.txt` (default: `mail.txt`). Use this content to update your [DNS via Web Interface][dns::example-webui] or directly editing your [DNS Zone file][dns::wikipedia-zonefile]:

    === "Web Interface"

        Create a new record:

        - **Type:** `TXT`
        - **Name:** should be your DKIM selector `<selector>._domainkey` (_default: `mail._domainkey`_)
        - **Value:** should use the content within `( ... )` (_see the info section below for advice on correct formatting_)
        - **TTL:** Use the default (_otherwise [3600 seconds is appropriate][dns::digicert-ttl]_)

    === "DNS Zone file"

        `<selector>.txt` is already formatted as a snippet for adding to your [DNS Zone file][dns::wikipedia-zonefile].

        Just copy/paste the file contents into your existing DNS zone. The `TXT` value has been split into separate strings every 255 characters for compatibility.
```

    ```

    To test that your new DKIM record is correct, query it with the `dig` command. The `TXT` value response should be a single line split into multiple parts wrapped in double-quotes:

    ```console
    $ dig +short TXT dkim-rsa._domainkey.example.com
    "v=DKIM1; k=rsa; p=MIIBIjANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQEFAAOCAQ8AMIIBCgKCAQEAqQMMqhb1S52Rg7VFS3EC6JQIMxNDdiBmOKZvY5fiVtD3Z+yd9ZV+V8e4IARVoMXWcJWSR6xkloitzfrRtJRwOYvmrcgugOalkmM0V4Gy/2aXeamuiBuUc4esDQEI3egmtAsHcVY1XCoYfs+9VqoHEq3vdr3UQ8zP/l+FP5UfcaJFCK/ZllqcO2P1GjIDVSHLdPpRHbMP/tU1a9mNZ5QMZBJ/JuJK/s+2bp8gpxKn8rh1akSQjlynlV9NI+7J3CC7CUf3bGvoXIrb37C/lpJehS39" "KNtcGdaRufKauSfqx/7SxA0zyZC+r13f7ASbMaQFzm+/RRusTqozY/p/MsWx8QIDAQAB"
    ```

[cloudflare-dns-zonefile]: https://www.cloudflare.com/en-gb/learning/dns/glossary/dns-zone
[dns-webui-dkim]: https://serverfault.com/questions/763815/route-53-doesnt-allow-adding-dkim-keys-because-length-is-too-long

> ### Debugging Issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Troubleshooting { #dkim-debug }
```

DKIM support is handled by either:

- OpenDKIM (_[enabled by default][docs-env-opendkim]_)
- Rspamd (_opt-in via [`ENABLE_RSPAMD=1`][docs-env-rspamd]_)

When DKIM is enabled, checks for inbound mail are enabled automatically. Additional setup is required for signing outbound mail. This is optional but encouraged.

[docs-env-opendkim]: ../environment.md#enable_opendkim
[docs-env-rspamd]: ../environment.md#enable_rspamd

!!! warning "RSA Key Sizes >= 4096 Bit"

    Keys of 4096 bits could denied by some mail servers. According to [RFC 6376][rfc-6376] keys are [preferably between 512 and 2048 bits][github-issue-1854].

    [rfc-6376]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6376
    [github-issue-1854]: https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/issues/1854

### OpenDKIM

OpenDKIM is currently enabled by default, but can be disabled with `ENABLE_OPENDKIM=0`.

#### Generating Keys

The command `docker exec <CONTAINER NAME> setup config dkim help` details supported config options, along with some examples.

DKIM signing requires a private key, while verification requires your DNS to be configured with the associated public key.

> !!! example "Create a DKIM key (OpenDKIM)"
> 
>     This example requires:
> 
>     - You have [created at least one email account][docs-accounts-add].
>     - Use your [volume for config][docs-volumes-config] (eg: `./docker-data/dms/config/:/tmp/docker-mailserver/`) to persist the DKIM key.
>     
>     Generate the DKIM files with:
> 
>     ```sh
>     docker exec -ti <CONTAINER NAME> config dkim
>     ```
> 
>     This has created your DKIM key and OpenDKIM config files.
> 
>     - `docker-mailserver` needs to be restarted. Outgoing mail will now be signed with your new DKIM key(s).
>     - For a receiver to verify your DKIM key, you must also add the DKIM public key to your DNS.
>     - You'll need to repeat this process if you add any new domains.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
!!! example "Create a DKIM key (OpenDKIM)"

    This example requires:

    - At least one [email account setup][docs-accounts-add].
    - Persisting the generated files with your [volume for config][docs-volumes-config] (eg: `./docker-data/dms/config/:/tmp/docker-mailserver/`).

    ----

    Generate the DKIM files with:

    ```sh
    docker exec -ti <CONTAINER NAME> setup config dkim
    ```

    Your new DKIM key(s) and OpenDKIM config files can be found at `/tmp/docker-mailserver/opendkim/`. You'll need to repeat this process if you add any new domains.

    After restarting `docker-mailserver` outgoing mail will now be signed with your new DKIM key(s). To support verification of your signed mail, complete the DNS record setup.
````

                },
                {
                  path = "/path/to/org.example.ed25519.private";
                  selector = "dkim-ed25519";
                }
            ]
        }
    }
    ```

!!! bug "File Permissions & Signing Issues"

    Make sure the user `_rspamd` is able to go into the directory where you persist the (private) key files, and ensure it can read them! You can use `su -l _rspamd -s /bin/bash` to change to the `_rspamd` user and then navigate into the directory and read the files (e.g. with `cat`). If any errors occur, you know the permissions are not correct yet.

    When you set `check_pubkey = true;` in `dkim_signing.conf`, Rspamd will check the public key against your private key and emit a warning if there is a mismatch. Monitor the log file (`/var/log/supervisor/rspamd.log`) closely!

[rspamd-docs-dkim-checks]: https://www.rspamd.com/doc/modules/dkim.html
[rspamd-docs-dkim-signing]: https://www.rspamd.com/doc/modules/dkim_signing.html

### DNS Record { #dkim-dns }

When mail signed with your DKIM key is sent from your mail server, the receiver needs to check a DNS `TXT` record to verify the DKIM signature is trustworthy.

> !!! "Configuring DNS - DKIM record"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! example "Configuring DNS - DKIM record"
```

    When you generated your key in the previous step, the DNS data was saved into a file `<selector>.txt` (default: `mail.txt`). Use this content to update your [DNS via Web Interface][dns::example-webui] or directly editing your [DNS Zone file][dns::wikipedia-zonefile]:

    === "Web Interface"

        Create a new record:

>         - **Type:** `TXT`
>         - **Name:** should be your DKIM selector `<selector>._domainkey` (_default: `mail._domainkey`_)
>         - **Value:** should use the content within `( ... )` (_see the info section below for advice on correct formatting_)
>         - **TTL:** Use the default (_otherwise [3600 seconds is appropriate][dns::digicert-ttl]_)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        | Field  | Value                                                                                                                                 |
        | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
        | Type   | `TXT`                                                                                                                                  |
        | Name | `<selector>._domainkey` (_default: `mail._domainkey`_)                                         |
        | TTL      | Use the default (_otherwise [3600 seconds is appropriate][dns::digicert-ttl]_) |
        | Data   | File content within `( ... )` (_formatted as advised below_)                                      |
```

Possibly better presentation than the list:

| Field  | Value                                                                                                                                 |
| -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Type   | `TXT`                                                                                                                                  |
| Name | `<selector>._domainkey` (_default: `mail._domainkey`_)                                         |
| TTL      | Use the default (_otherwise [3600 seconds is appropriate][dns::digicert-ttl]_) |
| Data   | File content within `( ... )` (_formatted as advised below_)                                      |

[dns::digicert-ttl]: https://www.digicert.com/faq/dns/what-is-ttl

    === "DNS Zone file"

        `<selector>.txt` is already formatted as a snippet for adding to your [DNS Zone file][dns::wikipedia-zonefile].

        Just copy/paste the file contents into your existing DNS zone. The `TXT` value has been split into separate strings every 255 characters for compatibility.

[dns::example-webui]: https://www.vultr.com/docs/introduction-to-vultr-dns/
[dns::digicert-ttl]: https://www.digicert.com/faq/dns/what-is-ttl
[dns::wikipedia-zonefile]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zone_file

> !!! info "`<selector>.txt` - Formatting the `TXT` value correctly"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? info "`<selector>.txt` - Formatting the `TXT` record value correctly"
```

    [Source][wikipedia-dkim]

When DKIM is enabled:

1. Inbound mail will verify any included DKIM signatures.
2. Outbound mail is signed (_when you're sending domain has a configured DKIM key_).

DKIM requires a public/private key pair to enable **signing (_via private key_)** your outgoing mail, while the receiving end must query DNS to **verify (_via public key_)** the signature is trustworthy.

### Generating Keys

You should have:

- At least one [email account setup][docs-accounts-add].
- Attached a [volume for config][docs-volumes-config] to persist the generated files to local storage.

DKIM is currently supported by either OpenDKIM or Rspamd:

=== "OpenDKIM"

    OpenDKIM is currently [enabled by default][docs-env-opendkim].

    The command `docker exec <CONTAINER NAME> setup config dkim help` details supported config options, along with some examples.

    !!! example "Create a DKIM key"

        Generate the DKIM files with:

        ```sh
        docker exec -ti <CONTAINER NAME> setup config dkim
        ```

        Your new DKIM key(s) and OpenDKIM config files have been added to `/tmp/docker-mailserver/opendkim/`.

>     !!! note "LDAP accounts need to specify domains explicitly"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ??? note "LDAP accounts need to specify domains explicitly"
```

        The command is unable to infer the domains from LDAP user accounts, you must specify them:

        ```sh

>         setup config dkim domain 'mail.example.com,mail.example.io'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        setup config dkim domain 'example.com,example.io'
```

        ```

>     !!! tip "Changing the key size"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ??? tip "Changing the key size"
```

>         The private key presently defaults to RSA-4096. Some DNS services and clients are only compatible with a smaller size.
> 
>         You can override the default like so for 2048-bit keysize:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        The private key presently defaults to RSA-4096. To create an RSA 2048-bit key run:
```

        ```sh
        setup config dkim keysize 2048
        ```

=== "Rspamd"

    Opt-in via [`ENABLE_RSPAMD=1`][docs-env-rspamd] (_and disable the default OpenDKIM: `ENABLE_OPENDKIM=0`_).

    Rspamd provides DKIM support through two separate modules:

    1. [Verifying DKIM signatures from inbound mail][rspamd-docs-dkim-checks] is enabled by default.
    2. [Signing outbound mail with your DKIM key][rspamd-docs-dkim-signing] needs additional setup (key + dns + config).

>     !!! example "Create a DKIM key"
> 
>         Presently only OpenDKIM is supported with `setup config dkim`. To generate your DKIM key and DNS files you'll need to specify:
> 
>         - `-s` The DKIM selector (_eg: `mail`, it can be anything you like_)
>         - `-d` The domain-part of email addresses you'll be sending from (_eg: `user@example.com` => `example.com`, not the mail server hostname `mail.example.com`_).
> 
>         See `rspamadm dkim_keygen -h` for an overview of the command options.
> 
>         1. Go inside the container with `docker exec -ti <CONTAINER NAME> bash`.
>         2. Add `rspamd/dkim/` folder to your config volume and switch to it: `cd /tmp/docker-mailserver/rspamd/dkim`
>         3. Run: `rspamadm dkim_keygen -s mail -b 2048 -d example.com -k mail.private > mail.txt` (_change `-d` to your domain-part_).
>         4. Presently you must ensure Rspamd can read the `<selector>.private` file, run:
>             -`chgrp _rspamd mail.private`
>             -`chmod g+r mail.private`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    !!! example "Create a DKIM key"

        Presently only OpenDKIM is supported with `setup config dkim`. To generate your DKIM key and DNS files you'll need to specify:

        - `-s` The DKIM selector (_eg: `mail`, it can be anything you like_)
        - `-d` The sender address domain (_everything after `@` from the email address_)

        See `rspamadm dkim_keygen -h` for an overview of the supported options.

       ---

        1. Go inside the container with `docker exec -ti <CONTAINER NAME> bash`
        2. Add `rspamd/dkim/` folder to your config volume and switch to it: `cd /tmp/docker-mailserver/rspamd/dkim`
        3. Run: `rspamadm dkim_keygen -s mail -b 2048 -d example.com -k mail.private > mail.txt` (_change `-d` to your domain-part_)
        4. Presently you must ensure Rspamd can read the `<selector>.private` file, run:
             -`chgrp _rspamd mail.private`
             -`chmod g+r mail.private`
```

>     Create a configuration file for the DKIM signing module at `rspamd/modules/override.d/dkim_signing.conf` and populate it with config as demonstrated below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    ---

    Create a configuration file for the DKIM signing module at `rspamd/modules/override.d/dkim_signing.conf` and populate it with config as shown in the example below:
```

>     !!! bug "DMS config volume support is not ready for Rspamd"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    !!! bug inline end "DMS config volume support is not ready for Rspamd"
```

        Presently you'll need to [explicitly mount `rspamd/modules/override.d/`][docs-rspamd-config-dropin] as an additional volume; do not use [`rspamd-modules.conf`][docs-rspamd-config-declarative] for this purpose.

    ??? example "DKIM Signing Module Configuration Examples"

        A simple configuration could look like this:

        ```cf
        # documentation: https://rspamd.com/doc/modules/dkim_signing.html

        enabled = true;

        sign_authenticated = true;
        sign_local = true;

        use_domain = "header";
        use_redis = false; # don't change unless Redis also provides the DKIM keys
        use_esld = true;
        check_pubkey = true; # you wan't to use this in the beginning

        domain {
            example.com {
                path = "/tmp/docker-mailserver/rspamd/dkim/mail.private";
                selector = "mail";
            }
        }
        ```

>         You can add more domains into the `domain { ... }` section. A domain can also be configured with multiple selectors and keys within a `selectors [ ... ]` array as shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        As shown next, you can:

        - You can add more domains into the `domain { ... }` section.
        - A domain can also be configured with multiple selectors and keys within a `selectors [ ... ]` array.
```

        ```cf
        # ...

        domain {
            example.com {
                selectors [
                    {
                        path = "/tmp/docker-mailserver/rspamd/dkim/example.com/rsa.private";
                        selector = "dkim-rsa";
                    },
                    {
                        path = /tmp/docker-mailserver/rspamd/example.com/ed25519.private";
                        selector = "dkim-ed25519";
                    }
                ]
            }
            example.org {
                selectors [
                    {
                        path = "/tmp/docker-mailserver/rspamd/dkim/example.org/rsa.private";
                        selector = "dkim-rsa";
                    },
                    {
                        path = "/tmp/docker-mailserver/rspamd/dkim/example.org/ed25519.private";
                        selector = "dkim-ed25519";
                    }
                ]
            }
        }
        ```

>     !!! warning "Support for DKIM keys using Ed25519"
> 
>         This modern elliptic curve is supported by Rspamd, but support by third-parties for [verifying Ed25519 DKIM signatures is unreliable][dkim-ed25519-support].
> 
>         If you sign your mail with this key type, you should include RSA as a fallback, like shown in the above example.
> 
>     !!! tip "DKIM Signing config: `check_pubkey = true;`"
> 
>         This setting will have Rspamd query the DNS record for each DKIM selector, verifying each public key matches the private key configured.
> 
>         If there is a mismatch, a warning will be omitted to the Rspamd log (`/var/log/supervisor/rspamd.log`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        !!! warning "Support for DKIM keys using Ed25519"

            This modern elliptic curve is supported by Rspamd, but support by third-parties for [verifying Ed25519 DKIM signatures is unreliable][dkim-ed25519-support].

            If you sign your mail with this key type, you should include RSA as a fallback, like shown in the above example.

        !!! tip "DKIM Signing config: `check_pubkey = true;`"

            This setting will have Rspamd query the DNS record for each DKIM selector, verifying each public key matches the private key configured.

            If there is a mismatch, a warning will be omitted to the Rspamd log (`/var/log/supervisor/rspamd.log`).
```

        2. Add `rspamd/dkim/` folder to your config volume and switch to it: `cd /tmp/docker-mailserver/rspamd/dkim`
        3. Run: `rspamadm dkim_keygen -s mail -b 2048 -d example.com -k mail.private > mail.txt` (_change `-d` to your domain-part_)
        4. Presently you must ensure Rspamd can read the `<selector>.private` file, run:
             -`chgrp _rspamd mail.private`
             -`chmod g+r mail.private`

    ---

    Create a configuration file for the DKIM signing module at `rspamd/modules/override.d/dkim_signing.conf` and populate it with config as shown in the example below:

    !!! bug inline end "DMS config volume support is not ready for Rspamd"

        Presently you'll need to [explicitly mount `rspamd/modules/override.d/`][docs-rspamd-config-dropin] as an additional volume; do not use [`rspamd-modules.conf`][docs-rspamd-config-declarative] for this purpose.

    ??? example "DKIM Signing Module Configuration Examples"

        A simple configuration could look like this:

        ```cf
        # documentation: https://rspamd.com/doc/modules/dkim_signing.html

        enabled = true;

        sign_authenticated = true;
        sign_local = true;

>         use_domain = "header";
>         use_redis = false; # don't change unless Redis also provides the DKIM keys
>         use_esld = true;
>         check_pubkey = true; # you wan't to use this in the beginning
> 
>         domain {
>             example.com {
>                 path = "/tmp/docker-mailserver/rspamd/dkim/mail.private";
>                 selector = "mail";
>             }
>         }
>         ```
> 
>         As shown next, you can:
> 
>         - You can add more domains into the `domain { ... }` section.
>         - A domain can also be configured with multiple selectors and keys within a `selectors [ ... ]` array.
> 
>         ```cf
>         # ...
> 
>         domain {
>             example.com {
>                 selectors [
>                     {
>                         path = "/tmp/docker-mailserver/rspamd/dkim/example.com/rsa.private";
>                         selector = "dkim-rsa";
>                     },
>                     {
>                         path = /tmp/docker-mailserver/rspamd/example.com/ed25519.private";
>                         selector = "dkim-ed25519";
>                     }
>                 ]
>             }
>             example.org {
>                 selectors [
>                     {
>                         path = "/tmp/docker-mailserver/rspamd/dkim/example.org/rsa.private";
>                         selector = "dkim-rsa";
>                     },
>                     {
>                         path = "/tmp/docker-mailserver/rspamd/dkim/example.org/ed25519.private";
>                         selector = "dkim-ed25519";
>                     }
>                 ]
>             }
>         }
>         ```
> 
>         !!! warning "Support for DKIM keys using Ed25519"
> 
>             This modern elliptic curve is supported by Rspamd, but support by third-parties for [verifying Ed25519 DKIM signatures is unreliable][dkim-ed25519-support].
> 
>             If you sign your mail with this key type, you should include RSA as a fallback, like shown in the above example.
> 
>         !!! tip "DKIM Signing config: `check_pubkey = true;`"
> 
>             This setting will have Rspamd query the DNS record for each DKIM selector, verifying each public key matches the private key configured.
> 
>             If there is a mismatch, a warning will be omitted to the Rspamd log (`/var/log/supervisor/rspamd.log`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== "OpenDKIM"

    OpenDKIM is currently [enabled by default][docs-env-opendkim].

    The command `docker exec <CONTAINER NAME> setup config dkim help` details supported config options, along with some examples.

    !!! example "Create a DKIM key"

        Generate the DKIM files with:

        ```sh
        docker exec -ti <CONTAINER NAME> setup config dkim
        ```

        Your new DKIM key(s) and OpenDKIM config files have been added to `/tmp/docker-mailserver/opendkim/`.

    ??? note "LDAP accounts need to specify domains explicitly"

        The command is unable to infer the domains from LDAP user accounts, you must specify them:

        ```sh
        setup config dkim domain 'example.com,example.io'
        ```

    ??? tip "Changing the key size"

        The private key presently defaults to RSA-4096. To create an RSA 2048-bit key run:

        ```sh
        setup config dkim keysize 2048
        ```

=== "Rspamd"

    Opt-in via [`ENABLE_RSPAMD=1`][docs-env-rspamd] (_and disable the default OpenDKIM: `ENABLE_OPENDKIM=0`_).

    Rspamd provides DKIM support through two separate modules:

    1. [Verifying DKIM signatures from inbound mail][rspamd-docs-dkim-checks] is enabled by default.
    2. [Signing outbound mail with your DKIM key][rspamd-docs-dkim-signing] needs additional setup (key + dns + config).

    !!! example "Create a DKIM key"

        Presently only OpenDKIM is supported with `setup config dkim`. To generate your DKIM key and DNS files you'll need to specify:

        - `-s` The DKIM selector (_eg: `mail`, it can be anything you like_)
        - `-d` The sender address domain (_everything after `@` from the email address_)

        See `rspamadm dkim_keygen -h` for an overview of the supported options.

        ---

        1. Go inside the container with `docker exec -ti <CONTAINER NAME> bash`
        2. Add `rspamd/dkim/` folder to your config volume and switch to it: `cd /tmp/docker-mailserver/rspamd/dkim`
        3. Run: `rspamadm dkim_keygen -s mail -b 2048 -d example.com -k mail.private > mail.txt` (_change `-d` to your domain-part_)
        4. Presently you must ensure Rspamd can read the `<selector>.private` file, run:
             -`chgrp _rspamd mail.private`
             -`chmod g+r mail.private`

    ---

    !!! bug inline end "DMS config volume support is not ready for Rspamd"

        Presently you'll need to [explicitly mount `rspamd/modules/override.d/`][docs-rspamd-config-dropin] as an additional volume; do not use [`rspamd-modules.conf`][docs-rspamd-config-declarative] for this purpose.

    Create a configuration file for the DKIM signing module at `rspamd/modules/override.d/dkim_signing.conf` and populate it with config as shown in the example below:

    ??? example "DKIM Signing Module Configuration Examples"

        A simple configuration could look like this:

        ```cf
        # documentation: https://rspamd.com/doc/modules/dkim_signing.html

        enabled = true;

        sign_authenticated = true;
        sign_local = true;

        use_domain = "header";
        use_redis = false; # don't change unless Redis also provides the DKIM keys
        use_esld = true;
        check_pubkey = true; # you wan't to use this in the beginning

        domain {
            example.com {
                path = "/tmp/docker-mailserver/rspamd/dkim/mail.private";
                selector = "mail";
            }
        }
        ```

        As shown next, you can:

        - You can add more domains into the `domain { ... }` section.
        - A domain can also be configured with multiple selectors and keys within a `selectors [ ... ]` array.

        ```cf
        # ...

        domain {
            example.com {
                selectors [
                    {
                        path = "/tmp/docker-mailserver/rspamd/dkim/example.com/rsa.private";
                        selector = "dkim-rsa";
                    },
                    {
                        path = /tmp/docker-mailserver/rspamd/example.com/ed25519.private";
                        selector = "dkim-ed25519";
                    }
                ]
            }
            example.org {
                selectors [
                    {
                        path = "/tmp/docker-mailserver/rspamd/dkim/example.org/rsa.private";
                        selector = "dkim-rsa";
                    },
                    {
                        path = "/tmp/docker-mailserver/rspamd/dkim/example.org/ed25519.private";
                        selector = "dkim-ed25519";
                    }
                ]
            }
        }
        ```

        !!! warning "Support for DKIM keys using Ed25519"

            This modern elliptic curve is supported by Rspamd, but support by third-parties for [verifying Ed25519 DKIM signatures is unreliable][dkim-ed25519-support].

            If you sign your mail with this key type, you should include RSA as a fallback, like shown in the above example.

        !!! tip "DKIM Signing config: `check_pubkey = true;`"

            This setting will have Rspamd query the DNS record for each DKIM selector, verifying each public key matches the private key configured.

            If there is a mismatch, a warning will be omitted to the Rspamd log (`/var/log/supervisor/rspamd.log`).
```
